---
title: Taiwanese minister Audrey Tang gives Taiwan a voice at UN via live broadcast
summary: Minister Without Portfolio Audrey Tang once again made a diplomatic breakthrough, appearing at the UN''s Human Settlements Programme''s World Urban Forum via live broadcast earlier this week.
image: https://img.ltn.com.tw/Upload/liveNews/BigPic/600_phpJQKBlu.jpg
category: events
permalink: events/taiwanese-minister-audrey-tang-gives-taiwan-a-voice-at-un-via-live-broadcast/
layout: page
---
Minister Without Portfolio Audrey Tang once again made a diplomatic breakthrough, appearing at the UN''s Human Settlements Programme''s World Urban Forum via live broadcast earlier this week.  Last December, Tang also used a telepresence robot to attend the UN''s Internet Governance Forum. One health expert is hopeful that this new method will allow Taiwan to have a voice in the international community.Minister Without Portfolio Audrey Tang once again appeared at a UN meeting when she delivered a presentation via live broadcast. Tang shared developments and trends of Taiwan’s social innovations.Audrey TangMinister Without PortfolioI personally provide an office hour at the lab. Anyone interested in social enterprises is welcome to have a discussion with me.  This the second time Tang has employed this tactic of attending a meeting by using a telepresence robot. Chinese delegates were upset about this maneuver, but the Internet Governance Forum’s chairperson didn’t accept China’s complaint.Lin Shih-chiaFdn. of Medical Professionals AllianceHow would China even go about trying to turn off the signal or video? There’s no way they could do that. So, despite a powerful country trying to impose its will, all of our international friends who want to help Taiwan are going to work with us to keep coming up with innovative methods like this.For years Lin Shih-chia has fought for Taiwan to be allowed to participate in the WHA, and Tang’s tactic gives her confidence that this will become a reality. Taiwan is not a WHO member, and because of pressure from China it cannot participate in the WHA. Taiwan is also not a UN member state, yet Tang was able to appear twice. Therefore, this opens up future possibilities for Taiwan, even though it can’t physically attend UN forums and related sub-forums, to have a voice on the international stage.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=621&v=Fp01UjSm5r8" title="GF 2017 - day 4 - WK XXII -OF95-Islands sorrounded by Land and Sea">GF 2017 - day 4 - WK XXII -OF95-Islands sorrounded by Land and Sea</a>
